---
title: "Why Event Gateway?"
description: "What is Event Gateway and why you should use it?"
layout: Learn
useLearnNav: true
---

# Introduction to Event Gateway

The rise of cloud architecture and hyper-ephemeral compute has led to a resurgence of interest in event-driven architectures.

Event-driven architectures allow for a decoupling between event producers and consumers, resulting in a loosely-coupled architecture that can rapidly scale to meet new demands. These new advances allow for billing that scales in line with your usage, giving you a future-proof architecture without breaking the bank.

Event Gateway is an event router designed for event-driven, serverless architectures. It makes it easy to wire functions to HTTP endpoints (even across various clouds), react to business events with serverless functions, and to share event subscriptions with others.

Here's why you should be using Event Gateway:

- [Business Values](#business-values)
  - [Accelerating business agility](#accelerating-business-agility)
  - [Data portability](#data-portability)
  - [Extending legacy architectures](#extending-legacy-architectures)
  - [Extending serverless use cases](#extending-serverless-use-cases)
- [Use Cases](#use-cases)
- [Features](#features)
- [Get Started](#get-started)

## Business Values

Adopting an event-centric digital business strategy is crucial for accelerating growth and delivering business value.

> “Digital business demands a rapid response to events. Organizations must be able to respond to and take advantage of 'business moments' and these real-time requirements are driving CIOs to make their application software more event-driven.” - Gartner

Event Gateway delivers on that goal. It acts as the central hub for events across your organization, routes those events seamlessly by connecting different parts of the system, and provides an easy mechanism to react to business events.

### Accelerating business agility

With the urgency to reduce time-to-market and to accelerate growth, Event Gateway plays a major role in centralizing event routing across business units and organizations.

It seamlessly integrates communication between applications through events, by carrying data payloads that define the interaction. Applications can emit events as things change; consumers that subscribe to those events can react and trigger corresponding business functions.

Events extend the reach of interaction not only within the organization, but can tap into events generated by enterprise-wide applications and external SaaS products. Since Event Gateway is cloud-agnostic, it gives you freedom of vendor choice and maximum flexibility.

Even better, you can hit the road running with the Event Gateway <a href="https://github.com/serverless/serverless-event-gateway-plugin" target="_blank">plugin for the Serverless Framework</a>. The plugin makes it dead simple to work with Event Gateway and your existing Serverless services.

### Data portability

In the heart of event-driven architectures, is _data_. Data rides the event as a payload, describes the thing that happened, and is available to any consumer that is interested.

Event Gateway adheres to a standard event schema (via <a href="http://cloudevents.io/" target="_blank">CloudEvents</a>) that describes event data in a common way. With many cloud providers and SaaS products integrating with CloudEvents, it makes it much simpler for businesses to consume events from heterogeneous sources—without worrying about compatibility or huge learning curves.

### Extending legacy architectures

Legacy architectures are one of the biggest hurdles for many companies to cross.

As companies move to leverage newer technologies, they find themselves bound by a large number of legacy applications and services, and non-flexible integrations to legacy data stores and APIs. To reap the benefits of event-driven architectures, they need to either re-architect their applications, or abandon legacy applications entirely.

That typically comes with a huge cost and time commitment. But with Event Gateway and the SDK that comes with it, organizations can keep their legacy applications while still modernizing them. This is because Event Gateway allows them to create an abstraction layer that can publish and subscribe to events across the organization in a seamless, loosely-coupled manner.

This not only allows legacy applications to participate in the event-driven space, but also provides a standardized schema for data flow across systems—incredibly important for cross-system interoperability, and for thinking ahead to compatibility with any future systems.

### Extending serverless use cases

Event-driven architectures pair well with serverless technologies. Event Gateway can easily take a business workflow and turn it into a series of events that trigger corresponding business logic inside functions.

Existing serverless applications that deal with events can now emit, subscribe to, or react to these events. Event Gateway sits in the middle, orchestrating the passage of events and data across the organization, across applications, and across cloud providers.

Additionally, a lot of boilerplate code required to pipe data into services like SQS, Kinesis, Firehose can be avoided with Connectors in Event Gateway. You configure the service you want to send the data to, map the source event, and Event Gateway will send the data payload to the service. No mundane code, just configuration.

## Use Cases

These are the 3 main use cases for Event Gateway that you should consider:

### Simple, serverless APIs

Use Event Gateway alongside the Serverless Framework to get the simplest, most productive developer experience possible for developing APIs. A single configuration file allows you to list your functions and define the endpoints that they’re subscribed to. Hit deploy and you’re live.

### Automate business processes

Use Event Gateway to connect your business systems. Update your CRM whenever a new user signs up for your product. Trigger emails when inventory is running low.

### Multi-provider service

Event Gateway is cloud agnostic, allowing for more vendor choice and flexibility.

## Features

### API Gateway

Easily subscribe FaaS functions to HTTP endpoints. Setup multiple Serverless services under a single domain, even across AWS accounts.

### Pub/Sub

Take advantage of pub/sub functionality but utilizing custom events. This allows you to process the same event with multiple systems.

### Connectors

Automatically route events to external systems like Kinesis, Firehose, SQS, etc.

### Platform Agnostic

All your cloud services are now compatible with one another; share cross-cloud functions and events with AWS Lambda, Microsoft Azure, IBM OpenWhisk and Google Cloud Platform.

### Streaming Events

Data streams in your application become events. Centralize events from any cloud provider to get a bird’s eye view of all the data flowing through your cloud.

### Sharable Events

Share events and functions to other parts of the application. Your teammates can find them and utilize them in their own services.

### Extendable through middleware

Perform data transforms, authorizations, serializations, and other custom computes straight from the Gateway.

## Get Started

Get started today with Event Gateway by <a href="https://dashboard.serverless.com" target="_blank">signing up</a> for an account. We have a hosted version of Event Gateway, so you can start using it immediately.

If you want to install it on your own infrastructure instead, you can check out the <a href="https://github.com/serverless/event-gateway" target="_blank">open-source</a> Event Gateway project.
